# Introduction to Aura Finance

## Protocol Summary

Aura Finance is a vault operator on Ethereum. Conceptually, Aura is similar to Convex Finance. If you are familiar with Convex, below is a direct comparison of Aura Finance and Convex Finance.

|  Convex / Curve  | Aura / Balancer  |
|  ----  | ----  |
| CRV |  Balancer 80/20 BAL/WETH BPT (referred as "BPT" below)   |
| veCRV | veBAL (Locked BPT up to a year) |
| cvxCRV  | auraBAL (BPT deposited with Aura)  |
| CVX   | Aura  |
| 3crv  | bb-a-usd  |

<br>

Like Convex farming CRV from Curve, Aura farms BAL from Balancer. Aura allows users to pool:

- Balancer's governance token, the BPT token of Balancer's BAL80-ETH20 pool
- LP tokens of Balancer pools.

Aura Finance locks the BPT tokens for veBAL, so that Aura can have boosted BAL rewards for Balancer pools and also influence the allocation of BAL to these pools. Aura then splits the rewards between BPT token and Balancer pool LP tokens providers. 

For more details on how Balancer's veBAL works, please refer to 
- https://docs.balancer.fi/ecosystem/vebal-and-gauges. 

## User Metrics

In Aura, there are three groups of users: BPT stakers, Balancer pool LP stakers, and Aura holders.

### BPT providers
- Mint auraBAL with BAL or BPT (80BAL-20WETH LP) 
- Stake and unstake auraBAL
- Claim rewards of BAL, bb-a-USD, and AURA

### Balancer pool LP stakers
- Deposit and withdraw Balancer pool LP tokens
- Stake and unstake
- Claim rewards of BAL and other incentives, and AURA

### AURA holder
- Lock Aura for up to 16 weeks
- Withdraw when lock expires
- Claim auraBAL rewards
- Delegate vote

## Financial Metrics

### Pool
Aura Finance pools are comprised of Balancer pool LP tokens that are deposited/staked in Aura Finance. 

### TVL
Each pool's TVL is the value of Balancer pool LP tokens deposited in that Aura Finance pool. If there's no direct source of price of these LP tokens, the value of these LP tokens is the sum of the value of the underlying tokens. Balancer pools may have two to eight tokens in each Balancer pool.

`Pool TVL = token price X number of tokens in that pool`

The protocol TVL is the sum of the TVL of the pools. 

It's optional to add:
- The TVL of auraBAL, which is the value of Balancer 80/20 BAL/WETH BPT minted with Aura Finance
- The TVL of AURA locked

However, we do note the current version of Convex Finance subgraph did not include the TVLs of the above.

### Revenue

#### Total Revenue
For each pool, its total revenue is the BAL rewards from Balancer, as harvested by Aura Finance for the corresponding Balancer pool LP tokens held and after applying the boost from the veBAL held.

`Total Revenue = BAL price X number of BAL harvested`

A Balancer pool will also generate the below yield as well but it is not counted as revenue:
- Trading fee. This accrues in the pool LP token and is not a revenue for Aura Finance;
- Additional rewards, as incentivised by other protocols from time to time. Aura Finance specifically states that "Fees are taken only from BAL revenue; no fees are taken from tokens from incentivized Balancer pools, nor from veBAL admin fees". So Aura Finance will receive this but pass it through 100% to its Balancer pool LP stakers. 

Aura Finance has also BPT providers and AURA stakers. They have no revenue impact:
- For the BPT providers (stakers or holders of auraBAL), the veBAL admin fees received by Aura Finance will be 100% passed through to them.
- No additional revenue is generated by AURA holders or lockers.

#### Supply-side and Protocol-side Revenue

As Aura Finance charges a total fee on all BAL revenue generated. Currently, the performance fee is 17%; thus, 17% of the Total Revenue goes to the Protocol-side, and 83% goes to the Supply-side. This fee can be adjusted.

`Protocol-side Revenue = Performance Fee Rate x Total Revenue`

`Supply-side Revenue = (1 - Performance Fee Rate) x Total Revenue`

#### Protocol-side Revenue Split
Currently, the 17% performance fee (protocol-side revenue) can be broken down as such:
- 5.5% goes to auraBAL stakers. This is paid out as BAL.
- 11% goes to AURA lockers. This is paid out as auraBAL.
- 0.5% goes to the harvest caller. This is paid out as BAL.

### Rewards

Aura Finance incentivises its Balancer pool LP stakers by giving AURA tokens. 50% of AURA supply will be distributed pro-rata for BAL earned on Aura Finance. The total emission and details is available here:
- https://docs.aura.finance/aura/usdaura/distribution

For each pool, its reward is the Aura tokens received.

`Reward Emissions = AURA price x Aura tokens received`

### Protocol owned liquidity
There's no protocol owned liquidity but there's a treasury. 

## Useful links

Protocol:
- https://app.aura.finance/#/

Docs:
- https://docs.aura.finance/

Contracts:
- https://docs.aura.finance/developers/deployed-addresses

Discord:
- https://discord.com/invite/aurafinance

